3D Graphics are the creation and manipulation of objects on the computer in three dimensions such that they have (width, height and depth/XYZ co-ordinates).
# Geometric theory
There are 3D equivalent of the 2D lines and shapes. Faces are where lines join into a 2d surface and vertices are made where lines join. Polygons are where faces join into a 3D shape.

Considering these foundational concepts, geometric theory refers to the mathematical principles used to represent, manipulate and render 3D scenes.

## Box Construction
This is a technique that is used in 3D modelling where a model is created by modifying primitive shapes to create a rough draft of the final model.

A primary function of box modelling involves extruding and scaling the faces which are the flat planes that make up a model.
## Extrusion Modelling
Extrusion is a method of adding geometry to a polygon primitive. Through extrusion you can manipulate the 3D mesh by either collapsing a face upon itself or by extruding the face outward along the surface.
# Rasterization
Rasterization is converting the mathematical representation of 3D objects into a 2D bitmap image. 

Each polygon on an object, typically triangles as they are the simplest polygons, have a huge amount of data about self.

Vertices of 3D objects are transformed from their 3D world co-ordinates to the co-ordinates for the camera and then to screen co-ordinates. Further processing can enhance lighting and texture.
## Example
Grand Theft Auto V
# Ray tracing
Ray tracing is a rendering technique that can produce incredibly realistic lighting effects. Essentially, an algorithm can trace the path of light and then simulate the way that light interacts with the objects in the scene.

This is then used to calculate realistic lighting effects like lens flares, reflections, blooming, and shadows.
## Example
Monster's University
