---
unit: "12"
---
# Support and management system life cycle
- Planning;
- Purchasing;
- Deployment;
- Maintenance;
- Replacement recycling.
# Main purpose
- Support different types of user using the system;
- Provide continuity of IT-Base;
    - Systems;
    - Procedures;
- Maintain and improve the performance of organization's IT systems;
- Ensure security and protection of data in the system.
# Research task
## What is an IT Helpdesk?
An IT help desk is a department of an organization that provides general technical support and troubleshooting for various IT issues, such as software problems and account access.
## What are the different types of hardware a company might have?
A company may have a variety of hardware such as: Laptop/Desktop computers, servers, printers, portable storage devices, monitors, keyboards, mice, scanners.
## What is Cybersecurity?
The protection of computer software, systems and networks from threats that can lead to unauthorized access to information, theft or damage as well as from disruption to services.
# Levels of tech support
- Pre-support and self-service support;
	- Search engines;
	- Ask AI;
	- Company FAQs;
	- Allows your users to find solutions to software and application issues with complete autonomy;
- First line support;
	- First line support is a way of informing the user of who they will contact first for IT support related issues;
	- Most organizations will have a service/help desk. the end user will usually contact the service/help desk via email or phone and a member of server/help desk support will then attempt to collect as much information and diagnostics about the incident as possible;
- Second line support;
	- The second line support is a role generally composed of the staff with greater technical skills than those of first-line;
- Third line support;
	- The third line support role is usually the external suppliers who will be specialists in their products;
	- However, it may be an internal technical group id they possess specific knowledge required.
# Individual job roles
- Service / help desk personnel;
	- Technical support and assistance;
	- Interact through phone calls to resolve issues;
- Technicians / technical support;
	- In-person;
	- Installing, maintaining, repairing, replacing;
	- Training junior staff;
- Network administrators;
	- Responsible for maintaining computer networks and solving any problems that may occur with them;
	- Assembling new systems, budgeting for equipment and assembly;
- Infrastructure architects;
	- Evaluate technology, market trends and identify prospective impact on business;
	- Ensure documentation of design and evaluation work;
	- Develop implementation plan.
# Outsourcing Technical Support
Technical support being outsourced allows the business to know there will be a scalable and adaptable to support the business.
## Pros
- Gaining incredible expertise;
- Better technology;
- Cost effective - only pay for what you need;
- Better support experiences;
- Easy to scale your business.
## Cons
- Potential of hiring the wrong technical support company;
- Less control;
- Specific industry experience.
