Waterfall methodology follows a linear sequence of steps, where each phase of the project is completed before moving to the next. Each phase depends on the completion of the previous one.
# Stages
## Initiation
Once the idea is created, objectives, scope, purpose, and deliverables are defined.
## Requirements Gathering
A full investigation occurs to understand all requirements expected, along with a feasibility study to ascertain if the project is worthwhile.
## Planning & Design
Design specifications are created, studied, and evaluated in an effort to understand what the final product should look like, along with an action plan needed to get there.
## Implementation
Coding of the software begins. All previous planning is put into action during this phase.
## Testing
After coding is complete, testing is performed to ensure that there are no errors before the software is delivered to the customer.
## Maintenance
This phase relies on the customer to report on any additional issues that may have been encountered in the real world. The development team works to solve and modify the software based on this feedback.
# Characteristics
## Advantages
- Simple and easy to understand and use;
- Easy to manage due to the rigidity of the model, each phase has specific deliverables and a review process;
- Phases are process and completed one at a time;
- Works well for smaller projects where requirements are very well understood;
- Clearly defined stages;
- Well understood milestones;
- Easy to arrange tasks;
- Process and results are well documented;
## Disadvantages
- No working software is produced until late during the life cycle;
- High amounts of risk and uncertainty;
- Not a good model for complex projects;
- Poor model for long and ongoing projects;
- Not suitable where requirements are at a moderate to high risk of changing;
- It is difficult to measure progress within stages;
- Cannot accommodate changing requirements;
- Adjusting scope during the life cycle can end a project;
## When is it suitable?
- Requirements are very well documented, clear and fixed;
- Product definition is stable;
- Technology is understood and is not dynamic;
- There are no ambiguous requirements;
- Ample resources with required expertise are available to support the product;
- The project is short.