%%*ZmFnZ290Cg*%%
> [!INFO] What is PRINCE2?
> PRojects IN Controlled Environemnts 2 (PRINCE2) is a project management methodology that is used for large projects. It consists of a large number of rules forming the framework for this documentation-heavy, disciplined methodology.
# Characteristics
- Helps PMs and their teams effectively plan, execute and manage projects;
- Provides a strict and structured approach to ensure success;
- It combines the following in order to do so:
	- 7 Principles;
	- 7 Themes;
	- 7 Processes.
# Principles
The 7 principles could be considered the guiding way to manage a PRINCE2 project. They must be effective followed for the project to be functional.
- Continued Business Justification;
	- Projects must have a valid business case;
	- Align with organizational objectives;
	- Provide measurable benefits throughout;
- Learn from Experience;
	- Leverage knowledge and lessons from prior projects;
	- Improves project planning, decision-making, overall performance;
- Defined Roles and Responsibilities;
	- Clear assignment of roles and responsibilities to project team members;
	- Promotes effective communication, delegation and collaboration;
	- Ensures accountability;
- Manage by Stages;
	- Breaking projects into manageable projects;
	- Each with specific objectives, deliverables and control points;
	- This ensures resources are utilized better and viability can be assessed easier;
- Manage by Exception;
	- Setting tolerances for project parameters;
	- This empowers teams to make decisions with defined limits;
	- This ensures effective/appropriate governance by senior management;
- Focus on Products;
	- Emphasizing the delivery and quality of outputs;
	- Ensuring outputs meet defined standards;
	- A focus on tangible and measurable deliverables;
- Tailor to Suit the Project Environment;
	- Adapting PRINCE2 to suit the unique requirements and constraints of each project;
	- Allows scalability and alignment with the organization specifics;
	- This ensures that the projects nuances are met by the methodology.
# Themes
The 7 themes of PRINCE2 ensure that projects are well organized, controlled and successful. They can be seen as a framework for managing a project.
- Business Case;
	- Focusing on ensuring that the project remains viable and aligned with the organization's objectives;
- Organization;
	- Involves defining and allocating roles and responsibilities, establishing reporting lines and ensuring that the right people with appropriate skills and authority are involved in the project;
- Quality;
	- Ensures that the quality of the product produced is as what was agreed;
- Risk;
	- Identifying, assessing and managing risks throughout the project's lifecycle. Identify early and address appropriately, encouraging a proactive approaches;
- Plans;
	- Detailing the plans to be implemented at different stages during the project - essential resource allocation and scheduling;
- Change;
	- Changes to the project are identified, evaluated and implemented, ensuring that everything is documented and approved while assessing the impact on the project;
- Progress;
	- Monitors the project's progress against the plans - tracking KPIs and taking corrective action where necessary - allows PM and stakeholders full knowledge of the project status.

# Processes
The 7 processes divide the projects into a structures approach with the goal of ensuring a successful outcome of the project.
- Starting Up a Project;
	- Establishes the approach and objectives of the project;
- Initiating a Project;
	- Outlines project management strategies and controls;
- Directing a Project;
	- Shows the desires direction that the project should follow;
- Controlling a Stage;
	- The day-to-day management of the current project stage;
- Managing Product Delivery;
	- Focuses on the creation of specialist products;
- Managing Stage Boundaries;
	- Planning of the next project stage to be undertaken;
- Closing a Project;
	- Closing the project in a controlled and orderly fashion.
# Advantages
- The framework is flexible so that it can be incorporated in just any type of project;
- For better communication and accountability in your projects, then PRINCE2 project management is among the best;
- It focuses more on outputs and provides for continuous improvement so progress and results are guaranteed.
# Disadvantages
- If heavy documentation isn't needed, then PRINCE2 will add inefficiency;
- At every stage there is a lot of work to maintain and update statuses within the chain of command which can slow down small projects and thus it shouldn't be used
- Due to the lack of involvement and time the senior management has, the project could be slowed too;
# When is it suitable?
 - In a regulation heavy environment where documentation is needed;
 - Where there is a large number of people or the project undertaking is very large;
 - When stability and flexibility are musts.