
> [!INFO] What is Rapid Application Development?
> RAD is a project management methodology where there is a focus on software development such that a minimum viable product is produced in a short amount of time. It involves quickly creating functional prototypes or versions of a software product to meet the immediate needs of the client.
# Characteristics
- Emphasis on collaboration;
- Busy environment;
- Small teams;
- Component based construction;
	- Different components are developed at the same time but by different teams.
# Process
## Requirements Planning
Designers, developers and users create a rough agreement on scope and application requirements, allowing prototyping to begin.
## User Design
The team begins designing the UI/UX of the application. This allows initial modelling and prototypes to be created. User feedback is then gathered with heavy emphasis on determining the system architecture. This step is repeated as often as necessary as the project evolves.
### Prototypes
The RAD process relies on the use of prototyping. After requirements planning has done a continuous process of prototyping MVPs, refining and testing them and continuing to prototype them.
## Construction
The construction phase is where most of the actual application coding, testing, and integration takes place. Along with User Design, the Rapid Construction phase is repeated as often as necessary, as new components are required or alterations are made to meet the needs of the project.
## Cutover
The final Cutover (or Transition) stage allows the development team time to move components to a live production environment, where any necessary full-scale testing or team training can take place.
# Advantages
- Develops software at a rapid pace;
- Works well with small teams;
- Can deal with changing requirements well.
# Disadvantages
- Due to the flexible nature and the potential for changes and additions, RAD is at risk of Scope Creep;
- RAD requires sufficient human resources to create the right number of teams;
- RAD is not appropriate where technical skill is high.
# When is it suitable?
- When the project scope and business objectives are well defined and narrow;
- When project decisions can be made by a small number of people;
- When project teams are small (6 people or less);
- When the project technical architecture is defined and clear;
- When key technology components are clear, in place and tested;
- When the project technical requirements are reasonable and within capabilities of technology used.