---
unit: "1"
---

> [!INFO] What is a digital device?
> A digital device is a piece of physical equipment that sends, receives stores and processes data.
# Devices
## Personal Computers
Computers for personal use of intermediate power. Includes Laptops, AIOs and Towers. 
- Easy to upgrade e.g. change/add GPU to PCIe slot to increase graphical capability, change CPU in socket to increase processing speed, change/add Network card to increase network speed, increase clock speed, change/add more cooling to reduce thermal throttling, add more RAM and/or increase RAM frequency to allow for faster recall of data, and change Storage to be bigger and higher speed like an M.2 SSD.
## Servers
Servers are high power and throughput that allow access to resources and services over a network.
- **Web Server** - Web servers manage client access to webpages over the network.
- **Mail Server** - Mail servers are responsible for delivering and allowing access to emails over the network.
- **File Server** - File servers allow clients to access files over a network.
- **Print Server** - Print servers centralize and manage access to printers on a network.
## Mobile Devices
Mobile devices are computing devices designed to be portable through the means of being small and lightweight and having a battery capable of running the device for extended periods of time and having wireless capability. This could be done with the use of SoC technologies.
- For many tasks mobile devices are not suitable. Word processing needs a proper keyboard for fast data entry and a large screen for display of the page and the interface in a good way, which mobile devices cannot do. Gaming requires powerful hardware and upgradability to keep up with increasing requirements, which mobile devices do not have. Video editing needs a large amount of screen real estate and lots of memory and graphical capability, which mobile devices does not have.
## Entertainment Systems
Entertainment Systems have multiple functions but generally have good quality equipment capable of displaying audio and visual data with good quality. 
- They usually also have a good amount of storage, as high-quality media files are large; 
- However, lots of modern usage is streamed content from a digital media server as part of a subscription service, and thus they usually have good networking ability as well.
## Navigation Systems
Navigation Systems employ GPS (Global Positioning System) and GLONASS (Global Navigation Satellite System) to allow the user to navigate the world around them and get their location through satellite triangulation with an accuracy of down to 3 meters.
- They can also include information about traffic congestion, road/infrastructure works, accidents, weather and points of interest on the map for convenience.
## Multifunctional Systems
Multifunctional Devices (MFDs), also known as All-In-One Devices (AIOs), are designed to absorb the main functions of many different devices into a single device for the purpose of convenience.
- They include devices like printers who do not solely print but are a scanner and copier and have networking capability to email documents too. Many mobile devices are a subtype of this wide-reaching term.
## Digital Cameras
Digital cameras use a sensor (typically a CCD or CMOS sensor) to capture light in a grid made of pixels and store the light data for the red, green and blue channels to form the image. This is then saved to a removable storage medium, usually a memory card.
- Cameras can take still photos, a single frame image of a given resolution and color depth, stored uncompressed or compressed;
- They are also capable of capturing moving images/video, which is many frames per second to use persistence of vision to look like smooth video. Even compressed these are much larger than single images. They may include sound, effects and subtitles added in post-production;
- SLR cameras were popular at one point in the 20th century and are popular again thanks to digital SLR (DLSR) cameras. They have interchangeable lenses – like wide-angle, zoom and macro lenses.
## Data Capture & Collection Systems
Data capture and collection systems, also known as Electronic Data Capture (EDC), are used to collect data and information from the world and pass it on for it to be utilized or stored.
- Payment card machines for purchase are data collection systems;
- Biometric security systems and other authentication technologies are data collection systems;
- Medical technology like CT, MRI and Pulse Oximeters are data collection systems;
- RFID used in things like race timing is a form of data collection system;
- Barcode-integrated PDAs for stock control collect data;
- ANPR cameras that enforce traffic laws are data collection systems;
- Barcode scanning checkouts are another example of data capture systems.
## Communication Devices & Systems
Communication systems are essential to allow information to flow between digital devices, all of which is facilitated by Communication Systems. Modern infrastructure in this field allows data to traverse the world in seconds to allow the exchange of information. These systems must be robust to reliably meet the demand of a growing digital world, dependent on the internet and the cloud.
- Satellites are used to send information without cables dishes, which is good for communication in remote areas;
- WiFi is good for LAN and internet connection without wires, using high-frequency radio;
- Fibre optic cable is an extremely fast method of transmitting data, where pulses of light are sent down a cable of optical fibre;
- Fibre to the cabinet (FTTC) is where fibre is routed to the cabinet in the local area, and then the cabinet is connected to the house via copper, which is faster than a complete copper line;
- Fibre to the premises (FTTP) is where the fibre optic line is connected directly to the customer and is faster again;
- 4G is a cellular connect for high-speed mobile data connectivity offering speeds up to 50 Mbps;
- Bluetooth is a connectivity system used for personal area networks commonly, to connect wireless peripherals to a PC or mobile device.
