---
unit: "1"
---

| Type                    | Example            | Pros                                     | Cons                                             |
| ----------------------- | ------------------ | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| Retail                  | *Amazon*           | Delivery to anywhere, cheaper.           | Delivery time, shipping costs.                   |
| Productivity            | *Google Workspace* | Easy to use from anywhere, often free.   | Less features than a full version.               |
| Financial Services      | *Ticketmaster*     | More efficient than in-person booking.   | Unreliable, costly at times.                     |
| Booking Systems         | *Revolut*          | Very secure, faster than alternartives.  | Harder to get human support.                     |
| News & Information      | *Ground News*      | Up-to-date/actively updated.             | Can be biased.                                   |
| Education & Training    | *Google Classroom* | Lots of resources, no time restrictions. | Varying resource quality and body accreditation. |
| Entertainment & Leisure | *Netflix*          | Access anywhere, on-demand viewing.      | Addictive, costs can be high.                    |


> [!QUESTION] Exam-style Question
> Analyze the implications of different online services.

Online services allow access to a multiple of services also available in real life - there are advantages and disadvantages to using the online service over an alternative.

One example of an online service is an entertainment and leisure service. This may be an audio or video streaming platform or an online gaming platform. Online entertainment and leisure is advantageous over alternatives like a cinema or a physical game as the content can be accessed from any location with an internet connection, which is more convenient for its users. The content can also be accessed at any time, which is another aspect of convenience compared to the alternatives which may have specific operating hours. However, some of these services can be addictive in nature, which can have negative effects on the user's health both physical and mental. Additionally, the cost of these services varies from platform to platform, with some being free with the addition of ads and some requiring costly subscriptions to view.

Another example are financial services. This may be an online banking system or an investment platform. An advantage of financial services is that they are extremely secure, due to the encrypted manner in which the data is transmitted. Another advantage is that the use of the systems is often faster and more efficient than walking into a branch. However, often it is harder to get human customer support or in-person support. This is because there is no human contact to begin with and it can make the service harder to get good support with.