---
unit: "4"
---


> [!QUESTION] How is software made?
> The process of making programs is broken down and planned such that it produces a piece of software that meets requirements, meets the deadline, and the budget.

# SDLC Process
The process of SDLC is as follows.
## Feasibility Study
- Is the program possible with the time and budget constraints?
	- **T**echnological;
	- **E**conomic;
	- **L**egal;
	- **O**perational;
	- **S**cheduling.
## Analysis
- What exactly is the problem that needs solving in detail?
	- Interviews, questionnaires and research to document the problem and create a specification of user requirements.
## Design
- How should the program work to meet the requirements and best practices?
	- Compiling information about the program like a Data Dictionary and mocking up the interface, making charts for the algorithms and creating test plans.
## Implementation
- Here the program is actually developed.
	- Developing the software, documenting the functionality of the program, testing the program ([[Extracurricular Notes/Fields of study/Software Testing|black and white box testing]]) and installing the program and any hardware.
## Evaluation
- What do the clients think of the program so far and what needs changing?
	- Get the clients opinion on the software and test it in situ.
## Maintenance
- What continual work needs doing to keep the program functioning?
	- Corrective Maintenance - fix any bugs or errors.
	- Adaptive Maintenance - change the software to meet different/new requirements.
	- Perfective Maintenance - tweak the software to improve it.