# Notable Laws
## Human Rights Act 1998
- Respect for privacy and family life, protects against unnecessary surveillance or intrusion into your life;
- Freedom of thought, religion and belief;
- Free speech and peaceful protest;
- No discrimination.
## Equality Act 2010;
- Making websites or apps or other products accessible to people with the following disabilities:
	- Impaired vision, motor difficulties, cognitive impairments or learning disabilities and deafness and impaired hearing.
## Copyrights, Designs and Patents Act 1988
- Gives the creators of literary, dramatic, musical, artistic works, sound recordings, broadcasts, films and typographical arrangement of published editions, rights to control the ways in which their material may be used;
- It is an offence to perform any of the following without consent of the owner:
	- Copy the work, rent, lend or issue copies of the work to the public, perform, broadcast or show the work in public, adapt the work;
- There is however fair dealing which allows use of copyrighted work in direct commentary, research, educational use, news reporting and parody/pastiche.

> [!HINT] A note about Trademarks
> Anything marked with the ™ symbol shows a claim to a common law trademark. However to show an official, registered trademark claim the ® symbol should be used.

## Creative Commons License
- Allows free use of creative work within reason;
- There are restrictions that the author can apply to this, but may not apply:
	- Adapted works have to be shared alike with the same creative commons license;
	- The works can be used freely unless for commercial purposes;
	- Attribution to the original work must be given.
## Contracts
- If a digital graphic used a model/photographer/voice actor etc. there are contracts being used;
- Usage rights - where and how the images may be used;
- Permissions - Grants permission to the photographer and the advertiser to use the models likeness;
- Exclusivity - Do the images belong to the photographer or the company.
## Considerations
- Logo - copyright;
- Website button - copyright and accessibility act;
- Advert/magazine cover - copy any human rights
- Game - copy right and human rights due to age restrictions and content;
- Film - copy right and human rights  due to age restrictions and content.

# Hardware
- Capture:
	- Scanner;
	- Camera
	- Graphics
- Graphics Card;
	- RAM;
	- Cache;
	- Processor;
- Output:
	- Screen;
	- Printer;
- Input:
	- Keyboard;
	- Mouse;
	- Graphics Tablet;

## Blender requirements
| Component | Minimum                               | Recommended      |
| --------- | ------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| OS        | Windows 8.1 (64-bit)                  | Windows 10 or 11 |
| CPU       | 4 cores with SSE4.2 support           | 8 cores          |
| RAM       | 8 GB                                  | 32 GB            |
| GPU       | 2 GB VRAM with OpenGL 4.3 (see below) | 8 GB VRAM        |
