---
unit: "9"
---

> [!INFO] What is Project Management about?
> Project Management is about looking at a project from a wider viewpoint and helping to organize it's delivery. It involves dealing with the business and ensuring timely delivery, and avoiding anti-patterns like scope/feature creep while attempting to give the client what they need to solve their problem.

---
# Overview
The three assignments of this year-long unit will focus on the following learning aims:
- Investigate the principle and methodologies of IT project management as used in industry;
- Carry out a project initiation for an IT project;
- Carry out the planning, execution, monitoring and controlling of an IT project, using an [[../Unit 4 - Programming/4.6 Software Development Lifecycle/4.6 Software Development Lifecycle|appropriate methodology]];
- Undertake the closure of a project by reflecting on the success of personal performance and the project outcome.
## Example: What actions might a Project Manager do?
- Use tools like a Gantt Chart to manage the timetabling of the project;
- Being an effective mediator between the client and the team;
- Thinking ahead about concerns down the road;
- Assigning tasks to team members based on their expertise and scope;
- Managing budgetary matters throughout the project.
# Elements of Project Management
## Initiation
- Considering the ideas around the project, important as misunderstandings immediately send the project in the wrong direction;
- Requirements are defined along with scope, purpose and deliverables to be produced;
	- Project understanding - requirements;
	- Risks - what could go wrong;
	- Possible solutions - research the ways the problem could be solved;
	- Feasibility study - Select the best solution in terms of effectiveness and suitability;
	- Perform a stage review - is the project on track;

> [!WARNING] Scope Definiton
> Defining the scope is an important part of the initiation phase, by having effective communication the scope definition will be accurate and scope creep can be avoided.
## Planning
- Assessing the needs surrounding the ideas and what will be needed for the solution, planning is never perfect but needs to be good;
- The plan can include many aspects of the chosen deliverable:
	- Cost;
	- Quality;
	- Timetable;
	- Progress/perfection tradeoff;
	- Team accountability.
## Execution
- Actually developing the deliverables the client needs, generally involves the most work for the team members.
- After a kick off meeting the general process goes as follows:
	- Develop the team;
	- Assign resources;
	- Execute project management plans;
	- Status meetings;
		- Frequency varies based on the project management style & nature of the project;
		- Typically daily for agile/lean projects;
		- Mitigates issues with early communication.
## Monitoring
- Any active stakeholder needs feedback in order for future work to run more smoothly;
- Measuring project progressions and performance involves:
	- Ensuring that progress aligns with plan;
	- KPI (Key Performance Indicators) that can determine if project is on track;
		- A PM will typically pick two to five KPI.
## Closing
 - This phase represents the completed project;
 - Once a project is complete, the project manager will often hold a meeting to evaluate what went well in a project;