---
unit: "14"
---
# About the Unit
Organizations are increasingly reliant on IT to do everyday tasks, deliver goals and ensure customers needs are met. Therefore, delivery of IT services is a necessity for an organization to be successful. Effective service delivery will use the [[../Unit 12 - IT Technical Support/12.1 IT Support#Support and management system life cycle|IT service life cycle]] to monitor the needs of an organization and seek continuous improvement of the services and systems.

You will apply an understanding of IT service delivery and draw on your learning from across the program to complete assessment tasks. You will analyze the needs of organizations in different contexts and sectors and to design IT service delivery solutions. This unit will support progression to a higher course with related content to IT.
# Assessment
An externally assessed examined unit using tasks. Part A has preparatory research using the internet in supervised conditions and Part B is eight hours of task-based assessment using your knowledge and the research.
# Scenario Solutions
- **Give them a Shopify site that has an integrated solution for the online site and processes payment too. It is relatively easy for none technical people to edit and configure and it has its own helpdesk system and support articles. It can be linked to their database using the API and will then automatically add orders to the Access database without any additional work on the company's part. This would be quicker and less costly to implement.**
- *Design a bespoke website for the business with stripe integrated in and a connection to the database manually. This could be integrated with Square to take payments. As this requires a web server and Square costs money to use along with the development costs, this would cost more and take longer.*
- *Using Stripe payment links, the payment provider can make shareable small single page websites through their stripe account that could be put on social media. This would allow people to buy that item by following the link. However, this is not a full store front page, though may cost less then Shopify.*
# Catalog
- Shopify - cloud-based costing between £20 per month for small to medium sized sites;
- Cloud hosted Access database, requiring no migration between different systems costing about £20 per month too;
- Shopify can be linked to it using an ODBC data source for automated record creation with the install of a simple driver install and configuration, with the ODBC driver being a tool from Devart with a one time fee of £160.
- Standard mid-range PC used by management to look at the database and the Shopify account.
- Ubiquiti Router with firewall.
# Implementing the Solution
1. Purchase and install the Ubiquiti router.
2. Configure the built in stateful firewall on the router.
3. Purchase and set up the mid-range PC.
4. Export the existing data from the Access database.
5. Purchase the cloud hosted Access database.
6. Import the exported data into the cloud-based Access.
7. Set up allowed users of the business on the database.
8. Purchase and set up the ODBC Shopify link driver for Access.
9. Purchase the Shopify subscription.
10. Create the site to the needs of the company. This includes the design and the adding of the product listings.
11. Link the items ordered trigger to the ODBC driver, making new records for each new purchase.
12. Create documentation for legal compliance, including policy for removal of old records in accordance with GDPR.
# Evaluation
## Advantages
- The setup has minimal hardware and software hosted in house, to avoid the chances of any unmanaged technical issues.
- The cloud based providers are simple and easy to manage, the use of a cloud Access database allows the provider to manage contingencies in case of data loss and allows for connection to the website easily, but retains the existing employee's familiarity with Access.
- The Ubiquiti router with a built in firewall is self-contained and is consumer friendly, with the firewall being mostly automated after initial setup.
- The overall cost is low at £40 pounds per month and a single payment of £160.
## Disadvantages
- There is less control over the systems then if they were hosted in house.
- The Access database may not be as scalable as the Shopify site to increased demand, so if the business were to expand it may require a new database solution in the future.
- If more staff users require access to the Shopify on different machines or other Shopify features are needed the monthly cost could increase.
