
> [!INFO] What is a Project Management Methodology?
> A project management methodology is a set of principles, tools and techniques that are used to plan, execute and manage projects. These projects help project managers lead team members and manage workloads.
# Methodologies
- PRINCE2;
	- Favored by large projects;
	- Favored by governments;
	- Ensures all stakeholders have a say;
- Agile;
	- Daily meetings;
	- Prototyping, acting upon prototypes;
	- Very iterative in nature;
	- Continuous development;
- Rapid Application Development (RAD);
- Kanban;
- Waterfall;
	- Mid length project (months not years);
	- Has a cascading progression from one stage to the next;
	- Needs to be ordered;
- Scrum;
# Presentation Script
## Topics
- What are the characteristics of the methodology? (Jay)
- What are the positives (pros) of this methodology? (Jay)
- What are the negatives (cons) of this methodology? (Dagan)
- What type of project would it be best suited to? (Dagan)
## Characteristics
We are going to be talking about **the** Agile methodology. Agile is one of most **prominent** Project Management methodologies, to which sprints are an essential pillar. **Sprints** are composed of short bursts of work on a particular set of tasks, each one results in a **deliverable** given to the client better than the last.

**The** use of sprints also make agile highly adaptable; everyone is aware requirements may evolve. Changes can then be accommodated, as long as they fit within reason of the original scope. These changes are further **facilitated** through agile's **client** centric approach, incorporating **regular** meetings with all active stakeholders (aka. people who are involved in the project's development). This **allows** frequent feedback to be provided and implemented before the next meeting, and also ensures people don't veer off course. There are **also** passive stakeholders who have a vested interest in the project, however do not influence it directly.

Communication is a must in agile, stand-up meetings are **typically** held daily. To ensure communication throughout sprints, companies **use** co-location, or software to emulate this **such** as slack. This ensures that the team can easily **ask** questions and get over-the-shoulder feedback during a sprint.

In addition to being essential to organizing an agile project, regular meetings **also** improve transparency. The meetings directly result in open communication and **progress** being visible. This ensures that all stakeholders have a fully encompassing view on the projects status. To assist with this, visual tools such as Trello **provide** dashboards which display key performance indicators and status of current sprints.

Sprints have a **fixed** duration, typically 1-4 weeks.  This makes sprints **predictable**, therefore longer term planning becomes easier. The fixed time period also helps to **ensure** quality, as they have **priority** features for a given sprint, and don't need to worry about other elements.  As long as the sprint's **deliverable** functions correctly and passes testing then they can move on.

Priority is decided based on a few factors, including: **business** value, risk and feedback. This ensures that team members can **focus** on what's necessary without worrying about the wider project.

Following a sprint, a **retrospective** is held, in which active stakeholders look at the outcome of a sprint, **identify** both successes and shortfalls, and propose ideas to improve these shortfalls. **This** leads to greater efficiency in future sprints, and allows for adjustment in ways of working.

**All** of this is reliant on the team itself, which must consist of all applicable skills for the project, distributed throughout all **members**. There is no fixed hierarchy for agile, and is not technically necessary at all, however most projects will at least **have** a team lead to assign sprints and such. This ensures that everyone has their own **tasks** to complete, but is still cross-functional, meaning they work towards a common goal.
## Pros
**We** know what agile is, but what makes this better than some of the alternatives?

Well **feedback** is much more frequent as work is **delivered** incrementally, allowing stakeholders to see progress as it happens. The incremental approach also allows teams to **pivot** on feedback or external needs without wasting months on remaking plans. This would be the case in a model like waterfall where later stages are reliant on **earlier** plans.

The **transparency** of agile improves customer satisfaction, as they are **involved** throughout, rather than just seeing the final deliverable. This allows them to see progress, and helps to **reassure** that their investment is worthwhile. Furthermore, they can ensure that their feedback is being implemented **accordingly**.

There can be less risk involved when using agile, as any **issues**, being technical, business or user-related, are identified and resolved quickly. If unnoticed issues do get introduced, then they are typically much **smaller** scale and do not result in **large** costs. In more traditional project management methodologies, issues would arise later, at a much more costly **stage**.

Continuous improvement is yet another benefit of agile. Rather than being tied to a specific **workflow**, teams and individuals change and adjust their approach from the results of a **sprint** retrospective. This means the whole team evolves and learns from the whole process. Team members can also **pick** up skills from collaborating with colleagues who specialize in other fields thanks to increased **collaboration**.

Agile results in faster delivery of **value** as high priority features can be built first, and released early. This efficiency is also seen in its focus on **delivery** rather than documentation. This means that users get a **usable** product sooner, as opposed to waiting for a big launch. With this, it still has to be a sufficient quality, even with less important features postponed. 
## Cons
**So** now that we have heard of the advantages of Agile, lets talk about it's downsides.

**Its** flexible nature can be an advantage in situations of change, however where **certainty** is a requirement, it can be lacking. Because it adapts as the process goes on - common questions about **specific** budget and scheduling are not as easy to answer as in other models like Waterfall or PRINCE2, where much if not all of the budgetary and timetabling estimates are done up-front. Larger **clients** like Government departments may not take kindly to this, as they may have to answer to a Treasury who may need specific estimates from the **beginning**.

Another issue with the flexibility of Agile is that in some teams that do not mitigate this, the flexibility of requirements can **lead** to scope creep. Grant mentioned this, where projects balloon as more and more features are requested. If teams do not **recognize** this early and say "we will do that in a later sprint", it can **cause** big problems. In other methods, requirements are more solid and thus mitigations are not needed as it is certain these features will have to be done in the **future**.

The specificity and constant engagement that Agile champions can allow for bespoke solutions. However in the case of clients who, given the situation or their needs, are **more** hands-off can create issues. Similarly, if engaged clients suddenly become **unavailable** then the project can stall. Other Project Management Methodologies that are more plan-driven can function much better in **these** cases as they can carry on using the agreed **plan**.

Additionally, Agile's focus on delivery over documentation can be great for some project types, but totally **unacceptable** for others. Projects involving activity with heavy **regulation** may require the detailed documentation for compliance that Agile simply **does** not undertake. In the case of expected audits or handing-off to officials, another method like Waterfall would function much **better**.

Finally, efficiency - the **concepts** of sprints, stand-ups and retrospectives may be an elegant way to deliver for some projects. However in others, they can just be an **unnecessary** use of time and resources. In these situations other more **lightweight** approaches better for small projects would suit better.
## Suitability
**So** when would Agile be suitable?

**A** project at CERN using experimental technology might use Agile for this reason - the deliverables of the project depend on technology that may not be fully explored yet as the research is ongoing.
Since Agile is **good** at dealing with changes to the requirements of the project, any project that has uncertainty or will have elements of rapid change would be suited to Agile. This could be economic or financial uncertainty affecting the business, or unknowns in how the project will unfold with respect to what the clients want.

**Development** of a personal portfolio website may work well with Agile for many reasons including this. The person will want to make the portfolio site look exactly how they have envisioned .
As we have said, Agile requires constant input from stakeholders so that, **iteratively**, the final form of the deliverables develops. Because of this, any project whose clients want to closely influence the final products would thrive with Agile.

Another example would be the development of **different** college courses in a new faculty. It would be unrealistic for a small but growing faculty to develop all 10 planned courses at once, but having multiple sprints where one or two is developed is doable.
This is a key advantage of the nature of Agile being a series of sprints, any project whose deliverables need to be broken into **increments** may find agile suitable. This can be useful in situations where the creation of the full deliverable in one go may not be feasible or realistic.

Another suitable situation would be a entrepreneur wanting to **create** a tourist guide for the growing town he lives in. Using Agile to publish the first edition would cement his business as the first and only doing this. This first edition can then be improved with more detail and accuracy to create the second edition in the next sprint and so on.
This is a knock on effect of the ability to deliver incrementally is that it can allow for a business to get its minimum viable product to market **quicker** than everyone else. This is very useful in these situations, as often being the first or one of the first to get a functioning product into any new market solidifies that businesses position.

## Conclusion
**In** conclusion, there are many nuances that have to be carefully thought about before a methodology is chosen. In the case of projects with uncertainty or that would benefit from iterative, continuous **improvements**, Agile is a brilliant choice. It is so ubiquitous in fact that it has become more of a category of methodologies, with many sub types that are improved versions for certain project types. In fact, **Kanban** and **Scrum** are two of these. Regardless of Agile's continued use in the world, it is **doubtless** it has had a massive influence on project management as a **whole**. Thank you for listening.

# Suitability
| Company                     | Project Aim                                                                                                                                                        | Methodology                                                                                                                                                    |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Construction company**    | They would like to be able to process quotes whilst out on the job and take payments there and then rather than waiting for cheques etc.                           | Kanban - allows multiple tasks at varying stages.                                                                                                              |
| **Solicitors Office**       | They would like to have all files/clients' details all in one place for both offices to make secretaries jobs easier when dealing with clients.                    | RAD short timeframes, doesn't require must testing after prototyping, could be slimmed down.                                                                   |
| **Graphics Design Company** | They would like to be able to have remote access and have all their images/media stored in the same secure places, so it can be accessed by staff at both offices. | Agile - they can do a migration sprint once everyone on each project is ready to move/not in a crunch.                                                         |
| **Garden Centre**           | In store 1 everything is automated, and they would like store 2 to be the same. For example, automated temperature gage, automated water/feeder for plants etc.    | Waterfall, they already have a general plan for the project as they have a functional installation at store 1. They just need to plan adaptations to the new . |
