---
unit: "1"
---
A peripheral device is a hardware device that isn't required for a [[1.1 Digital Devices|digital device]] to preform it's primary function.

> [!INFO] Input Devices
> An **Input Device** allows data entry into a digital device.

> [!INFO] Output Devices
> An **Output Device** allows data output/display from a digital device. 
# Storage Devices
A storage device allows the permanent storage of data. Many digital devices use an internal storage device to hold the operating system. External storage drives can be used to exchange data between devices.
## Comparison
- Hard Disk Drive (HDD);
	- HDDs have a series of metal platters read and written two with magnetic pulses by a read head;
	- It is often cheaper than an SSD and has a good reliability in terms of up-time;
	- It is however slower than an SSD and is fragile, susceptible to impacts and large magnetic fields;
- Solid State Drive (SSD);
	- SSDs use an array of small capacitors to hold an electrical charge; by accessing along the word and bit lines we can read or write data.;
	- High transfer speeds and durable to impacts and magnets;
	- After long use they get hot which can damage them, and they are more expensive;
- USB Flash Drive;
	- These use the same flash memory as SSDs but with a USB connector. This makes them portable and easy to interface with many devices;
	- They are more portable than other technologies and widely compatible;
	- Smaller file size than SSDs;
- SD Card;
	- SD cards also use flash memory but are smaller again and use a proprietary port. This limits compatibility some, but with it being industry standard converters exist;
	- Extremely portable;
	- Very easy to lose as they are so small;
- Optical Disk;
	- SD cards also use flash memory but are smaller again and use a proprietary port. This limits compatibility some, but with it being industry standard, converters exist;
	- Relatively portable;
	- Slow access speed even when hard sectored, and they are brittle and prone to scratches which disable reading.