---
unit: "1"
---

> [!INFO] Why is accessibility important?
> - It is a legal requirement for both workplaces and customer service environments.
> - It enhances productivity for those who afford use of accessible systems. Inclusive workplaces are [6x](https://accessibleemployers.ca/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/Why-Hiring-People-with-Disabilities-is-Good-For-Business-in-the-New-Normal-infographic.pdf) more likely to anticipate change and [6x](https://accessibleemployers.ca/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/Why-Hiring-People-with-Disabilities-is-Good-For-Business-in-the-New-Normal-infographic.pdf) more likely to be innovative.
> - Workplaces that are accessible have a lower turnover rate, meaning skillful employees are retained as part of your workforce. More people will apply for jobs with you giving you more choice when hiring for positions, because [66%](https://www.peoplemanagement.co.uk/article/1831387/two-thirds-british-workers-say-workplace-edi-important-when-job-hunting-survey-finds) of workers consider inclusion as a factor when job seeking.

**Trackball**
- Generally either thumb operated with a ball about an inch in diameter or smaller moved by one finger (normally the thumb) and the buttons clicked by others
- The rotation of the ball instigates the motion of two rollers that corresponds to the X and Y axes on the screen. As the ball spin, these rollers capture the movement and translate it into cursor motion on the monitor
- Modern trackballs use optical or lasers sensors to detect
- Advantages:
	- Space saving - The trackball itself doesn't move requiring less desk space than a regular mouse making it ideal for cramped workspaces
	- Precision Control - Subtle Movements of the cursor 
	- RSI prevention - Trackball mice can give your wrist the rest it needs while your thumb and fingers do the work preventing conditions like carpal tunnel
	- Accessibility for people with joint pain and arthritis flare up.
- Disadvantages:
	- Maintenance - The trackball mechanism can accumulate dust and grime easily and requires regular cleaning to maintain smooth operation
	- Price - Trackballs tend to be more expensive than regular mice
	- Learning curve - The trackball mice can take some getting used to and might even require training to use effectively

**Magnifiers**
- Magnifiers can be physical devices or pieces of software. Both assist people with visual impairments by allowing them to make the screen bigger and thus make text easier to read.
- Physical magnifiers are a flat lens mounted in front of a monitor that optically enlarges the screen. 
- The whole screen is enlarged and the magnification can be somewhat adjusted by changing the distance the lens sits, however a physical item must be bought.
- Software magnifiers zoom the screen and move the zoomed point of view over active elements like the mouse. The whole screen is not enlarged, but the level of zoom can be controlled.
- This is advantageous as the Magnifier tool is usually a common program to come with Operating Systems.

**Braille Embosser**
- Braille embossers are used to emboss paper with braille characters, allowing a document to be rendered to paper, similar to what a printer does with ink.
- This allows for tactile reading using braille for blind or visually impaired users.
- An advantage of this is the familiarity of the braille system for the user, allowing them to read anything from the computer in an easy form they already know. It also allows accessible review of documents without a computer, much like printed documents.
- However they do use paper - more paper than a printer does too because braille takes up more space on average, and can be noisy and slower at embossing than a printer is at printing. Additionally some embossers only use heavyweight paper instead of regular printing paper as regular paper is too thin.

**Braille Keyboard**
- Braille keyboards allow a normal qwerty keyboard to be navigated by someone who is blind or visually impaired, through a tactile cover or embossed keys that allow them to feel the value of a key with the braille system.
- This allows the use of a normal keyboard, which is completely compatible with normal systems, by a blind or visually impaired person with some adjustment.
- However covers only fit certain keyboards, and special keyboards are more expensive and may not be as fast as alternatives.

**Braille Typer**
- Braille typers are nonstandard keyboards, similar in look to a steno keyboard, with four keys for each finger, representing each dot in a single braille character.
- This has the advantage that people who are brought up with braille usually find this easier to use and report being far faster with these units than a traditional keyboard.
- However they are more costly than normal keyboards, and many do not feature the functional keys of a normal keyboard meaning functionality may be limited to just typing, and they require software on the computer to interface with them, limiting their compatibility.

**Large Print Keyboard**
- Large key keyboards are normal keyboards with different keycaps with bolder, larger typefaces used, such that they are easier to read. 
- These keyboards allow those who are slightly visually impaired to use a keyboard, even if they cannot touch type. As they are normal keyboards at their core, they are as compatible as a normal keyboard. As they aren’t that much different from a regular keyboard, they don’t tend to cost more.
- However for people with serious visual impairments, or blindness, they will not be helpful unlike some other options.

**Touchscreens**
- While touchscreens have seen wide appeal in mobile devices anyway, even for PCs they provide advantages for people with physical or cognitive disability. This is because people with such disabilities can have trouble with the traditional keyboard and mouse. This is because it is a single interface for both input and output, allowing for the user to have real-time feedback on interactions with the system.
- People with visual impairments also make use of touchscreens, as a touchscreen interface generally features larger icons, and many software systems come with accessible features and interfaces that can be activated, further increasing suitability. 
- However touchscreen monitors generally cost more on average, and may not be as durable over time.

**Eye Typing**
- A camera is mounted onto the computer and it is set to focus on the user's eye / eyes.
- Camera determines where your eyes are looking on the screen below it, and correctly observes the user's eye movements, outputting it as a cursor moving on the screen.
- ADVANTAGES:
	- Can allow a person with no mobility in hands/feet to type full sentences relatively quickly
	- Transportable, can be taken anywhere and easy to set up.
	- Can be applied into Scientific Research, Human Resources and Market Research.
- DISADVANTAGES:
	- Is very slow compared to normal typing and requires concentration to use, making it somewhat unintuitive.
	- Is known to be poorly integrated with other software heavily limiting its compatibility.