# Factors affecting performance
## Malware
Malware can corrupt data and affect network traffic. It may also use system resources or disable them, affecting the capability of the system from the user's point-of-view. This will reduce system performance.
## Virtual Memory
Virtual memory is used when there is not enough RAM available. A section of the disk called a pagefile is used to store pages, which are segments which contain things that can be in memory. These pages are then moved to memory when needed. If there is not enough RAM, switching from RAM to disk can happen too frequently, using bandwidth. This is called thrashing and is a sign of low memory and reduces performance.
## Hardware 
There are many considerations when talking about hardware. We need to consider if the system meets the minimum hardware requirements of its OS. If it only barely meets the requirements, it may be slow. The processor's adequacy and the memory size will impact speed of processing and how much can be done at once.
# Managing performance
## Defragmentation
Disk fragmentation is where files are stored partially in multiple spaces on a hard disk. This can reduce access speed as the file must be found at multiple points and reconstituted - the seek time is the main speed reduction. Defragmenting disk moves files around on disk to store files without fragmentation. This reduces seek time, increasing speed. SSDs are unaffected by fragmentation.
## Registry Cleaning
Some registry files are left behind after uninstallation or when they are unneeded. These are called orphaned files and are a waste of disk space. Registry cleaning locates these files and removes them from the system. This saves disk space and improves speed.
## Software Updates
Updated software can have improves performance and less bugs. Updating software will afford the system these improvements, increasing speed and reliability of the system. Additionally, the OS requires updates too, which can give the same improvements and effects.
## Anti-virus
To avoid the negative impacts of malware, anti-virus software scans system and user files to detect malicious files and then quarantines or removes them. This can take time, but some anti-virus software scans files when they are added to the system for increased speed in response time. Additionally, disk/file size and disk fragmentation can reduce scanning speed. Anti-virus software must have its database updated frequently to keep up-to-date with the latest threats.
## Firewalls
Firewalls monitor network traffic in and out of the system and block traffic that matches any rules in place - generally these rules check for suspicious transmissions, but manual rules can be added by the end user. By blocking malicious data, attackers and malware, harm to the system by these are prevented. This protects the system from the impacts of this harmful activity, one of which may be performance.
## Backup
Recovery of files, user and system, can help performance for the user as any data loss caused by damage or malware can be reverted quickly avoiding loss of data and productivity. Backups can be stored on an external drive or in the cloud.
