# Networking Vulnerabilities
## Ports
*What is it?*
A network port is the endpoint of a network communication.
*What is it used for?*
Different ports are used for different applications.
*Why is it a potential vulnerability?*
All ports can be at risk of an attack. No ports are naturally secure.
## Firewalls
*What is it?*
A network security system that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing network traffic based on predetermined security rules.
*What are they used for?*
Commonly used for blocking unused ports, reducing the threat vector.
*Why are they a potential vulnerability?*
If poorly configured, there may still be a large attack vector via the ports. Acts as a false sense of security.
## External storage devices
*Why are they a potential vulnerability?*
They can bring malware into a network which is otherwise secured. If an employee uses a USB drive to transfer files offsite. It could then be infected with malware while on a customer site. This will then be brought back into the network.
# Organizational Vulnerabilities
## File Permissions and Privileges
*What are file permissions and privileges?*
Assigned access to files, network drives and other functions.
*Why do we need them in organizations?*
To ensure staff **only** have the access they need to perform their job and nothing more.
*Why can they be a vulnerability?*
Anyone who has access can view all data on a network drive. This means a single user with a weak password can be compromised, granting access to more data than they should need.
## Password policy
Rules which ensure that users set secure user account passwords.

If one user is to have an insecure password, it could give attackers access to other areas of the network. An insecure password can fall to a simple brute force attack.
# Software Vulnerabilities
Downloading any software onto a machine can cause a vulnerability
## Software bugs
These accidental issues can be left in software, and give attackers an attack vector onto any device with it installed.
## Illegal copies
It could be malware.
You don't get security patches or updates, making you vulnerable to other cyber attacks.
## SQL Injection
A user enters an SQL statement into an input field which runs it against a database.
This can be used to delete or extract data from the database.
## Zero day exploits
They are flaws in a software program that the developers have not noticed.
They are now open to cyber threats.
# Operating System vulnerabilities
## Unsupported versions
No security patches being released by vendors, making them vulnerable to threats.
## Updates not installed
Legitimate operating systems can still be vulnerable if updates are not installed
# Mobile Device Vulnerabilities
## Update Lead Time
A mobile phone's operating system requires security patches and updates. The OEM for the phone will not immediately roll the patch for the base operating system (e.g. Android) to their devices. They have to modify the patch for their device drivers and interfaces. This however means the patch could go unapplied/unavailable on some devices for weeks or months.
## Unsupported Devices
Some older devices become vulnerable because they do not receive the latest updates because of planned obsolescence. This can lead to vulnerabilities that go undefended.
## Data On Devices
Phones have lots of personal data and contact details which could be used to steal someone's identity. This could happen if the phone is stolen or hacked.
# Process Vulnerabilities
This refers to how people use the systems, i.e. social engineering.
## Data Leaks
Use of social engineering to gain access to data.
## Sharing Security Info
Password sharing or sharing of IDs. This however is very traceable with basic questioning.
# Cloud Vulnerabilities
Cloud computing is very convenient but insecure due to the internet connection. 
## Files
Files are vulnerable due to them being available online. They could be hacked or stolen and then deleted or sold. This is because of the third party provider being in control of the security and not the end user.
## IoT

