# Data Types
There are different types of data that can be held about someone.
- Personal;
	- Used to identify a living person;
- Confidential;
	- Data that is not intended for others to know;
- Sensitive;
	- Special category data that could lead to discrimination etc.

# Data Protection

> [!Info] Why do we need data protection?
> Data Protection is designed to protect the privacy on individuals, ensuring personal information is processed in an ethical manner.

## The Information Commissioner's Office
The ICO is the independent body that investigates possible data protection violations. Under the old DPA 1998 a company in breach could be fined up to £500,000.
## General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
GDPR's implementation in the UK replaced the old DPA 1998. Some of it is similar however updates have been made. One is that organizations must have a Data Protection Officer. They must also report a breach to the ICO within 72 hours of finding out. Another new element is the "Right to be forgotten". Fines now are £20,000,000 or 4% of annual turnover, whichever is larger.
## Research Activity

> [!QUESTION] Can you find a news article regarding a GDPR fine?
> Find out how much they were fined, why they were fined and what they did to rectify the breach.
### TikTok €530,000,000 fine by the Irish Data Protection Commission (DPC)
They were fined €530,000,000 for unlawful transfers of European user data to China. This violates GDPR because transfers to non-GDPR following countries must be done where the destination of the data has equivalent protection to the current GDPR systems. They were also not transparent about how and where users' data was being stored.

TikTok has six months to bring its data processing and systems in line with GDPR or their processing systems and transfers to China must be suspended. TikTok has said it deleted the European user data that had been stored in China.
# Computer Misuse Act

> [!Info] Why do we have the CMA?
> The DMA protects against the theft and damage of information held in IT systems and of the IT systems themselves. Before this was passed, cybersecurity offences were not illegal.

## What does it cover?
Broadly speaking, hacking and spreading viruses.​ Attackers can be punished for attempted hacking, even if not successful nor does it have to be malicious in intention. This has made the legal standing of ethical hackers somewhat disputed.
- Section 1 - unauthorized access to computer materials;
	- Punishable by up to 2 years in prison and/or a large fine;
- Section 2 - unauthorized access with intent to commit or facilitate commission of further offences;
	- Punishable by up to 5 years in prison and/or a large fine;
- Section 3 - unauthorized acts with the intent to impair, or with recklessness as to impairing the operation of a computer;
	- This can be punished by up to 10 years in prison and/or a large fine;
- Section 3a -making, supplying or obtaining articles for use in offence under section 1,3 or 3ZA materials;
	- This can be punished by up to 2 years in prison and/or a large fine;
- Section 3ZA - unauthorized acts causing, or creating risk of, serious damage;
	- The maximum sentence on indictment is 14 years​;
	- Unless the offence caused or created a significant risk of serious damage to human welfare or national security, then it is life imprisonment;
## Research Activity

> [!QUESTION] Can you find a news article CMA fine or punishment?
> Find out how much they were punished and why they were punished.
### Attacks on Marks & Spencer, Co-op, and Harrods  
Four people (two 19-year-olds, a 17-year-old, and a 20-year-old woman) were arrested over cyber-attacks targeting these major retailers. The suspected offences include breaching the Computer Misuse Act, blackmail, money laundering, and involvement with organised crime. The attacks caused serious disruption (e.g. M&S's online store was offline for weeks).