---
unit: "3"
---
# Online Communities
Online communities are sites and groups of people online who are like minded. They can form around hobbies, works of art and even businesses. Many businesses can be considered to have an online following and community and there are many ways that can help to form one.

> [!CITE] Key Statistic
> 76% of internet users reported participating in an online community in 2022. 

Because of how common they are on the internet and the way in which they attract users, it is advantageous for a business to attempt to form one or to tailor certain content to their existing online communities, or online communities which many of their target audience are part of. [[IT Course Notes/Class Notes/Unit 3 - Using Social Media In Business/3.4 Cleaning Business#Relevant Communities|Example.]]
# Social Media Policy
Most organizations have an Acceptable Use Policy (AUP), which can contain a section that focuses on social media. This will contain a section that focuses on the standards the business should follow on social media which may include:
- Following the companies ethos;
- Being honest and accurate;
- Following confidentiality;
- Complaint/issue resolution guidelines;
- Separating personal and business content;
- Cybersecurity policies;
- Chain of command;
- Copyright policy.

Generally larger business will have a more consistent and strict policy, whereas a smaller business will have a less strict or descriptive policy, or may not have one.
## Example: The New York Times
<iframe src="https://www.nytimes.com/editorial-standards/social-media-guidelines.html" width="1000" height="500"></iframe>

