---
unit: "4"
---
# Repetitive Tasks
Repetitive tasks humans perform are mundane for the mind. If these tasks were automated and the workers were to take on the more technical role of managing the system, they can perform other tasks, and avoid boredom. For business, this eliminates monotony without having shifts rotated, improving worker morale.
## Calculations
Application software allows for repetitive calculations to be preformed en masse. For example, in excel, dragging a formula in a cell downward allows the calculation to be repeated for each row below automatically. This is opposed to management of finances in the past, where an individual would do their taxes with a calculator or adding machine themselves.

Many scientific fields rely on computers for this as well, where a given algorithm is ran with slightly different parameters over and over until a given result is found. This is referred to as an exhaustive search or a brute-force search. For example, the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search uses home computers to iterate over an equation looking for prime numbers. In fact, a few days ago on the 12th of October, another large prime number was found after 6 years of searching.
## Mass Production
In a situation where a computer and specialist application software may be controlling machinery on a production line, the repetitive task the machine is preforming can be done instead of a human. Repetitive physical action can actually lead to musculoskeletal disorders like carpal tunnel syndrome - these are called Repetitive Stress Disorders. If computers were to take over the physical action and the workers were to control the machines instead, they could be saved from a painful disorder. This is what has happened in a lot of industries with computerized mass production. 

These kinds of machines work by having the application software accept a series of instructions after being calibrated, and these instructions once input into the program are processed to form the movements of the robotic/computer controlled system.
# Dangerous Tasks
## Construction/Maintenance
Many of the tasks performed in construction can be dangerous, with the industry having seen levels of fatality and injury far above the average for workplaces, even with proper health and safety. This is where robotics has been utilized and shows promise, as it can take over on tasks that pose a serious risk, whether they are purely physical or if they require intelligence. Such robotic equipment is referred to as intelligent construction equipment.

One example would be heavy lifting - where some things need to be moved with caution and dexterity, ruling out large machinery - even if numerous people were to lift they could injure themselves. Application of robotics allows lifting and careful positioning of objects easily, and due to the large weight capacity, safely. This eliminates the possibility of common lifting related injuries, like a back injury. 

Many countries have seen historically low levels of productivity in the construction sector, so the application of intelligent construction equipment can be used to leverage higher productivity by taking over from humans in long, labor intensive tasks - completing them faster, with little to no risk to human life and with no human error. 

Despite these advantages, intelligent construction equipment has seen low adoption rates in the industry. Studies on this topic tend to conclude it is due to the economics of the contractor business - it isn't a big enough incentive to spend the large amount of money on the initial investment in the systems, considering that humans can already complete the tasks. The construction industry in most countries is a fragmented market, with small companies that don't have the budget required to make the big investment. Nevertheless, larger construction contractors are investing in the systems, with positive results.
## Hazardous Material Handling
There is an obvious risk to life in hazardous waste handling with waste being radioactive, or contaminated with extremely deadly chemicals. Work in this industry has become a lot safer with the advent of software and hardware systems designed for various tasks.

One example is remote control robotic systems used for disarming and dismantling live explosives and munitions. Many bomb disposal teams make use of robots, as even with suits to protect humans, it is far safer to disarm munitions with these devices. Some hazardous material teams have used robots in sealed working areas to safely dismantle nerve gas ordinance. These old weapons can be unstable due to decomposition and rust, so can be more dangerous than usual - using these robots to process the hazardous materials allows humans to be controlling the systems from a safe area.

There are also software systems to help manage hazardous exposure by people to keep them safe. For example, a central system can communicate with smart dosimeters in a hospital, allowing safety inspectors to instantly check radiation exposure to hospital staff like radiologists and nurses instantly. As older dosimeters may have a small area that becomes discolored if exposure is too high, this can do unnoticed, and it can be difficult to tell if that is due to many small exposures, or one large one. If the wearer does not realize the dosimeter has changed color, they may continue exposure. Smart dosimeters measure exposure and can send alert the wearer if a sudden increase in radiation is detected, or their quota has been met.

# Search Engines
Information used to be much less convenient to find. A particular inquiry by a person would require them visiting a library and hoping they have a book on the subject. If they don't, one would have to visit a different library. Even then, the book may not have been printed recently, in which case it will be out of date.

A common household way to get information used to be an encyclopedia. However they are limited in detail compared to a whole book on a subject, out of date the moment they are printed and expensive to buy. Many full sets of encyclopedia comprised numerous volumes, taking up shelves and shelves of space. Britannica, an encyclopedia printer, no longer makes physical copies, having only a website today,

Once the internet came round, it became much easier to find up-to-date knowledge, but still not very easy. The early internet had a tree-like structure for queries, requiring the user to start a whole new query if the topic changed. Once Tim Burners-Lee's concept of a web of knowledge for the internet caught on, many pages were linked in this web form with hyperlinks. A search engine leverages this system by allowing a user to enter a query, and get a list of popular and reliable sites in return in the form of hyperlinks. This not only allows for up-to-date and reliable sources of knowledge, but eliminates the need for users to remember specific URLs as long as they know what search term to use, making the experience more intuitive.

Search engines work by indexing the web, storing in a database information about sites and the connections to other sites, along with other metrics which allow the system to infer how recent and how reliable the site is. They also use tracking to analyse how many people search a particular term, and recommend that more. Additionally they track how many people click on a certain listing, as to move more popular listing further up the results.

Modern search engines also comprise many other useful features, like summaries from sites that allow a users question to be answered without them needing to navigate to a page and search the site for their answer. Another common feature is for businesses and people to have a card in the search results with key facts. Most also allow image results for queries, and some allow images to be used as a search query.

All of these features make searching for information on the web as easy and convenient as possible, making them common place in society and representative of most internet users, for both personal and work use. With over 90% market share the most commonly used search engine is Google. Bing and Yahoo! both have roughly 3% share each. There are many browsers focused on a specific audience, like DuckDuckGo and Brave Search, which are focused on privacy, and in recent years some AI-based search engines.